Although we picked Python for this
course, it's important to note that it's
just one of the many coding languages
out there.
Think of a given programming language
as just one of the many powerful tools
in your IT toolbox.
Each language has its unique set of
pros and cons.
Some run faster than others.
Some are better suited for enterprise
applications.
Others are particularly good at
crunching numbers.
There are platform-specific scripting
languages like PowerShell which is used
on Windows, and Bash which is used on
Linux.
Both are widely used by system
administrators on those platforms.
There are also general-purpose
scripting languages similar to Python,
like Perl or Ruby, which are also
widely used for scripting and
automation. JavaScript, which was
originally developed as a client-side
scripting language for the web, is
increasingly used server-side for a
broader set of tasks.
And the list doesn't stop there.
There's a vast array of traditional
languages to explore like C, C++, Java,
or Go. As you progress in your career
in IT, you'll probably encounter a
number of different languages and learn
when to use each of them.
But let's not get ahead of ourselves.
First, we have Python to get our heads
around.
A nice feature of learning the basics
of programming in one language is that
you can generally apply the same
concepts you learn to other languages.
This means that once you're familiar
with Python, you'll find it easier to
pick up new coding languages as you'll
spot and understand similarities and
differences between them.
After all, every language needs to do
some common things like create
variables, control the flow of a
program, read input, and display output,
even if they do these tasks using
different approaches.
As we called out earlier, learning a
programming language is somewhat similar
to learning a foreign language.
You'll need to grasp the syntax and
semantics for that language.
Luckily for us, once you know the
fundamentals of programming, learning
another language is much easier than
learning a second foreign language.
There are a lot more similarities
between programming languages than
differences. To explore some of the
similarities and differences between
various scripting languages, let's take
a look at a simple program that prints
the words hello world ten times in
three different languages, Python, Bash,
and PowerShell. As you can see, each
language uses a different approach to
printing hello world.
But look closer and you'll see
similarities too.
Each language must somehow put text
onto the screen.
The command for Python is print, for
Bash it's Echo, and for PowerShell it's
Write-Host. Also notice that each
language has to count to ten in some
way. While Python does this by
specifying range(10), Bash uses a
sequence notation to count from 1 to
10.
PowerShell has the most complex syntax
in this example, but it also boils down
to starting at 1 and counting up to 10.
So as we've just seen there's a whole
lot of programming languages out there,
but don't let that scare you.
In this course, you will only need to
focus on learning Python.
Once you can speak Python you can go on
to learn any other language you want.
Up next, we've got another quiz to help
you practice what you've just learned.